# Methods

Source video: [C# Tutorial - Full Course for Beginners, Methods](https://youtu.be/GhQdlIFylQ8?t=5389)


**Method** (defs.):
- MS: is a **code block** that *contains a series of statements*. A program causes the statements to be executed by calling the method and specifying any required method arguments. In C#, every executed instruction is performed in the context of a method. The `Main` method is the entry point for every C# application and it is called by the **common language runtime (CLR)** when the program is started.

More info: [MS Methods](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/methods#:~:text=A%20method%20is%20a%20code,the%20context%20of%20a%20method.) and [MS CLR](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/clr).


- Geekforgeeks: are generally the **block of codes or statements** in a program that gives the user the ability to **reuse the same code** which ultimately saves the excessive use of memory, acts as a time saver and more importantly, it **provides a better readability of code**. So basically, a method *is a collection of statements that perform some specific task and return the result to the caller*. A method *can also perform some specific task without returning anything*.

More info: [C# | Methods](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/c-sharp-methods/)

- **Method**: a block of code that performs specific task. You call a method to reuse it in different spots in your program.

> **Doubt**: there should be a style guide to name local methods. (+ on this when I get to that point).

## Starting code
```cs
using System;

namespace ConsoleApp_Giraffe
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {

            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }
}
```

### How to create a method

- `static void Main(string[] args){}` is actually a method inside the program. The `{ }` contain the code to be executed.

- - `Main` indicates the starting method to execute the program. 

- - `static` to be explained later.

- You should specify return type which gives back information. But, `void` means the method won't return anything.

- You call a method simply by naming it in the `Main` method; e.g., `MethodName();`

- Name the method based on the taskt it performs; e.g., `SayHi`. Follow UpperCamelCase to name methods.

- Methods are always followed by `( )` and optionally followed by `{ }`.
- - The`( )` contain parameters or argument(s); these are the info a method takes. REMEMBER TO SPECIFY THE PARAMETERS' DATA TYPE.
- - The `{ }` contain the code to be executed.

- From the `Main` method, you can call the same submethod as many times as you want.

- You can **pass any type of specified datatype** using different parameters into a method; e.g., strings, ints, arrays, any value you want to work with as long as you can specify it when you create the method (e.g., `static void SayHi(**string** name, **int** age){}`)

**Parameter** (def.): Information can be passed to methods as parameter. Parameters act as variables inside the method. They are specified after the method name, inside the parentheses. You can add as many parameters as you want (*method overloading with != parameters*), just separate them with a comma.


## Final program
```cs
using System;

namespace ConsoleApp_Giraffe
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            SayHi("Igna", 26);
            SayHi("John", 36);
            SayHi("Marta", 56);
            SayHi("Juan", 20);

            Console.ReadLine();
        }

        static void SayHi(string name, int age)
        {
            Console.WriteLine( "Hello, " + name + ". You are " + age + ".");
        }
    }
}
```

> There is a difference btw methods and functions. I'll look into that later.