# Drawing a shape

Source video: [C# Tutorial - Full Course for Beginners, Drawing a shape](https://youtu.be/GhQdlIFylQ8?t=305)

## Generated code in VS Community 2019:
```cs
using System;

namespace ConsoleApp_Giraffe
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
        }
    }
}
```
The first program to greet the world is done. 

## Good points to consider: 
- ### *system* line(s):
```cs
using System;
//…
```
This specifies what we want to use in C#.

`using` is a keyword, highlighted with blue by the editor. The `using` keyword imports a namespace, and a namespace is a collection of classes. Classes brings us some sort of functionality, and when working with an advanced IDE (like VS), *it will usually create parts of the trivial code for us*. In this case, it created a class for us, and imported the namespaces which are required or expected to be used commonly. In this case, 1 namespace is imported for us, but there can be more. For instance, we use the `Console` class —before `.WriteLine()`— which is a part of the `System` namespace.


- ### *namespace* line:
```cs
namespace ConsoleApp_Giraffe
```
The **namespace** is defined with the name of the project: `ConsoleApp_Giraffe`

- Uses of **namespaces**:

Namespaces are containers that are used in C# to organize and provide a level of separation of codes. They can consist of other namespaces, classes, etc.

A **namespace** can have following types as its members:
1. Namespaces (Nested Namespace)
2. Classes
3. Interfaces
4. Structures
5. Delegates

**Namespaces** are not mandatory in a C# program, but they do play an important role in writing cleaner codes and managing larger projects.

- ### *class* line:
```cs
class Program
```
A class is essentially a container where we can put code that can later be executed.

We can have more classes, even in the same file. For now, we only need one class. A class can contain several variables, properties and methods, concepts we will go deeper into later on. For now, all you need to know is that our current class only contains one method and nothing else. It's declared like this:

- ### *static void Main()* line:
```cs
static void Main(string[] args)
```

This is called a method or function and it's another container where to put code.

The first word is the keyword `static` that tells this method should be accesible without instantiating the class (more about this later on).

The next keyword `void` tells us what this method should return. For instance, it could be an integer or a string of text. But in this case, we don't want our method to return anything. **Note**: C# uses the keyword `void` to express the concept of nothing).

The next keyword `Main` is simply the name of our method. This method is the so-called entry-point of our application; that is, the first piece of code to be executed and, in our example, the only piece to be *executed*.

Now, after the name of a method, a set of arguments can be specified within a set of parentheses. In our example, our method takes only one argument, called `args`. The type of the argument is a string, or to be more precise, an **array of strings**, but more on that later. If you think about it, this makes perfect sense, since Windows applications can always be called with an optional set of arguments. These *arguments will be **passed** as text strings to our main method*.

- ### *Console.WriteLine()* line:
```cs
Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");
```

More info: [WriteLine(String)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.console.writeline?view=netcore-3.1#System_Console_WriteLine_System_String_)

Essentially, we are telling C# to write the text `"Hello World!"` out on to the screen.
 
```cs
Console.WriteLine();
```
This is an instruction to write sth that will be in btw quotes in the console.

In btw (" "), you *specify* what will be written as string datatype in the console: 
```cs
("Hello World!");
```
**IMPORTANT**: always end with `;`.

Next, execute the code with *Start* button in VS.

- ### *Console.ReadLine()* line:
```cs
Console.ReadLine();
```
This method reads the next line of characters from the standard input stream and returns a string.

More info: [Console.ReadLine Method](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.console.readline?view=netcore-3.1#definition)

Usage: [Remarks](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.console.readline?view=netcore-3.1#remarks)
The **Remarks** sections contains info about the usage of what is being searched. For example:
1. One of the most common uses of the `ReadLine` method is to **pause program execution** before clearing the console and displaying new information to it, or to prompt the user to press the *Enter* key before terminating the application. 
2. If standard input is redirected to a file, the `ReadLine` method reads a line of text from a file. 

## Final program
```cs
using System;

namespace ConsoleApp_Giraffe
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Hello World!");

            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }
}
```

## Drawing a shape
```cs
using System;

namespace ConsoleApp_Giraffe
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("   /|");
            Console.WriteLine("  / |");
            Console.WriteLine(" /  |");
            Console.WriteLine("/___|");

            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }
}
```
The instructions are executed all of the lines of code in order.

**NOTE: When we program, order matters.**

A program is a set of instructions that the computer follows.
The order of those instructions matters.
In C#, the instructions are inside the {} (curly brackets) which are part of the `Main` block of code.