## Exercise 1: Working With Strings

After seeing this video section, I decided that it's just enough already and I will try to understand methods of the string data type.

One thing that bothers me is the relation of string class and string data type. Although there are `String` and `string`.

Most probably, I will use the debugger with several breakpoints. I consider it the best tool to actually see how the code works. 

Too much theory wtihout practice —which is what I have normally encounter— have just made my brain tired and not craving for more.

If everything goes well, I will restart the course on the next topic.


## Search:
After web search, I am not the only one with the same doubt:

- [Diff btw class and datatype](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5164005/what-is-the-difference-between-a-class-and-a-datatype#:~:text=A%20data%20type%20can%20be%20described%20as%20being%20either%3A&text=Reference%20Types%20(C%23%20Reference)%2C,references%20to%20the%20actual%20data.&text=Classes%20are%20Reference%20Types.,within%20its%20own%20memory%20allocation.), which led me to the following,
- [Diff btw struct and class in .NET?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13049/whats-the-difference-between-struct-and-class-in-net), and later to
- [Choosing Between Class and Struct](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/design-guidelines/choosing-between-class-and-struct), which I think is way above me as I don't think I'll be creating any cnew `struct` in the near future.

Worth knowing is that framework designers are the ones that design a type as a `class` (a reference type) or as a `struct` (a value type). So these guys are the ones I will be asking to answer my doubts if I can not make sense of the help docs they provided. =)